Hello, everyone, in this video we're going to pick up right where we left off in the previous lesson.
All right, in your text, Ed, I want you to jump in to your user, control their file towards the
bottom.
You'll have a function named profile posts screen.
Now, when we render this template, we're already passing it relevant username and avatar values.
But we're also going to want to pass it the actual list of posts for this current author.
So let me show you how I would set this up.
So right above this response dot render line, but still within the function.
Let's add a new line and we could write a comment here to stay organized.
Let's say ask our post model for posts by a certain author I.D..
So before we write the code to make this happen, we want to go up to the top of this user controller
file and import or require in our post model.
So scroll up to the top to save some typing.
You could even just copy and paste this line where we require in the user model.
So select that copy at right below it, paste it, change const to post and require in a file named
post.
All right.
Now back down at the bottom of this file, underneath this comment that we just wrote to ourselves,
let's say post dot.
And this function doesn't exist yet, but we can create it in just a moment.
We can choose any name we want, but let's call it Find by author I.D. This action would definitely
need to talk to our database.
So it's going to take a bit of time to complete so we could set this function up to return a promise.
So right after it, we could just say dot then dot catch.
Let's provide functions in both the then and catch parentheses.
Do the same thing for catch if our promise rejected, so if the catch ran, it would have to be some
unforeseen or technical issue and I wouldn't want to show the end user any sort of technical error message.
So for the time being, just as a quick fix, we would just render our 404 so responsive, render 404.
Unless something super unexpected happens, the promise is going to resolve successfully.
Now, when we set up this promise, we're going to create it so that it resolves with a value.
The value will be an array of posts.
So within these function parentheses, let's include a parameter, let's call it posts.
Right.
Whatever the promise resolves with is going to get passed into this function.
OK, and then within the body of this function is where we would want to actually render our template.
So let's just cut and paste these four lines of code, right.
We just want to move the response, not render command.
So select that, cut it.
And then up within our then function, just paste in your clipboard.
By the time this code runs, we will have access to an array of posts which we would want to pass into
our template.
So right above this line, let's just add a property named posts.
Give that a value of posts.
Be sure to include a comma at the end.
Cool.
Let's go ahead and save this.
And now we just need to go into our post model and create a function with this matching name that returns
with a promise that eventually will resolve with the expected data from the database.
Actually, one really important detail that I missed here within the parentheses for find by authorized,
clearly we'd want to pass it in authorized to look for.
So within these parentheses, let's just say request dot profile user dot underscore.
I'd cool.
Let's save this and now jump in to our post model.
So within our models folder jump in to post J.S. Let's scroll down to the bottom and right above the
closing module that exports equals post line.
Let's add a new line and say post and that's uppercase post post dot find by author.
I said let's set that to equal a function within these function parentheses.
Let's include a parameter of author.
I'd write because our controller is going to pass in the authorized that we're interested in.
Now, before we begin building out the body of this function, I first want to point out that this function
is going to be dangerously similar to our find single by IDE function.
So if you scroll up we can find that function, find single by ID.
The only real difference between these two functions is that one looks in the database for a match based
on post ID, whereas the other would want to look in the database for a match where posts have a certain
author ID.
Aside from that, all of this is the same.
We're still going to want to perform the look up the projection and we're still going to want to clean
up the post author data.
So if the only real unique difference between these two functions is going to be what comes in the aggregate
before the lookup, so basically from here up, it doesn't make sense to have this much duplication
going on.
So in order to save a ton of duplication, what I want us to do is create a new function that both of
these functions can leverage.
Let me show you what I mean.
So scroll up to where we see our find single BIID begins and let's just duplicate or copy and paste
this entire function.
So begin selecting from the start of this line all the way down until the closing curly bracket here.
So you'll know to stop selecting ones you see post find by author ID do not select that.
Just stop at this closing curly bracket.
Let's copy that into our clipboard and then scroll back up above.
Find single my ID and let's just paste it in.
OK, so now we have this duplicate copy that we are free to manipulate and sort of hollow out on this
duplicate copy.
Let's change its name obviously.
So let's get rid of this and say uppercase post dot, let's name it reuseable post query within the
parentheses.
For this function we can get rid of the ID parameter in this reuseable function.
We do not need this if check.
So go ahead and delete those for.
More lines of code.
OK, next, when we call aggregate on our posts collection, we no longer need to have this right because
this is going to be the one operation that's unique between our find by authorized and fine by single
post idee.
So let's get rid of that line.
And now everything in this aggregate is something that we'd want to do in both cases.
OK, cool.
Let's keep scrolling down.
We definitely want to keep this logic that cleans up the post author property.
Let's keep scrolling down within this new reuseable function.
We no longer need this if else section.
So just begin deleting from the start of if and end your deletion right after the closing curly bracket
for the else block.
Delete that in its place.
Let's simply resolve with the value of posts.
OK, now let's scroll back up and adjust the way that we are working with these aggregate options,
since the only thing that's going to be unique is the operations that we call before this lookup operation.
What we can do is this on the line where we create our reuseable post query function within these top
level parentheses for our outer function.
Let's include a parameter, let's name it, unique operations.
I just made this name up, but let's go with this.
So we're on the same page, OK?
And now right before this line where we say let posts equal a wait post collection, let's add a new
line and let's create a new variable.
Let's say let ag operations short for aggregate operations.
Let's set that to equal whatever array of operations was passed into this function.
So unique operations.
And then we can use an array method.
So every array in JavaScript has a method named Concat.
Concat is going to return a new array and whatever we give it in these parentheses, it's going to add
that onto the original array.
So within these concat parentheses, let's just move all of these aggregate operations, right?
We want to move this entire array of operations.
So on this line, when we call posts, collection, aggregate, begin selecting at the start of the
square bracket for the array.
We just want to cut and paste this entire array.
So select the opening square bracket and then stop selecting at this closing square bracket.
So cut that into your clipboard and then within the concat parentheses, we can just paste in your clipboard.
OK, and then on this line where we say let posts equal.
Well, now within the aggregate parentheses, we can just pull in our ag operations array.
Right, because that's going to take the only unique parts and then add on the shared or common parts.
So add operations.
Cool.
At this point, our reuseable post query function is complete.
Now let's go leverage it.
So let's scroll down until we find our find single by IDE function, OK?
And now we can delete a bunch of otherwise duplicated code within this function.
Begin deleting at the start of this let posts line and let's select and keep scrolling down.
Keep scrolling.
You can stop selecting right before this if post length line.
So I'm stopping my selection to delete right after this closing curly bracket in parentheses that comes
after return post.
Let's delete that.
OK, in its place, let's do this.
Let's say let posts equal and we know that our reuseable function returns a promise.
So let's say a wait uppercase post reuseable post query.
And then all we need to include in these parentheses is the one part of the query that's unique.
So we give it an array of aggregate operations.
So square brackets to create an array.
We only need one operation, the match operation, but feel free to dropdown just to stay organized.
So each operation is an object.
And then we would say dollar sign, match colon.
And then we'd give that an object and then we would just match it based on the field that we're interested
in.
So underscore ID should match and then we just say a new instance of Mongu DHBs Object ID and we give
that ID.
Cool, so we've leveraged our reusable post query from within this function.
Now let's scroll down and within our empty find by author IDX function, let's just leverage that reusable
function again now, because in this case, we are completely OK with returning an empty array of posts.
Right, because maybe an author doesn't have any posts yet.
Since that's the case, we don't need really any logic in this function, meaning since our reusable
function returns a promise, we can just say return and then call that reusable functions of post dot,
reusable post query.
And since it returns a function, that's what this is going to return.
So ultimately, our controller will still be working with the promise when it calls find by authorized.
OK, now within the reusable parentheses here, we just want an array of aggregate operations so square
brackets feel free to dropdown.
Each operation should be an object.
So curly brackets.
So first, let's say match and that should have an object as its value.
We would want to match by the author field write.
Each post is going to contain an author field with a matching ID.
So we're interested in any documents where that set to whatever is getting passed into this function.
So author I said, OK, now we are going to want a second operation in this array.
So at the end of this line, comma, and then a new object, let's say dollar signs sort essentially
we just want to sort things so that the newest posts are at the top.
Right.
The most recent should come first.
So a new object, the field that we want to sort by should be the created de colon.
We can give it a value of one for ascending order or a value of negative one for descending order.
In this case, that's what we want.
Let's go ahead and save this and test it out.
To refresh your memory, let's jump into user controller.
So remember, we are working on the profile posts screen.
This is what it would look like in the Web browser.
And now we just want to pull in and use real data for this list of posts.
So we are already passing posts into our render template.
So all we need to do is jump into our profile template and leverage the posts array.
Let me show you what I mean.
So jump into profile SJS and around line number 17, you'll see a div with a class of list group.
Inside it you'll see three elements.
So example, post one, two and three.
So we want to hollow this out and make it dynamic.
So let's copy and paste one of the elements into our clipboard so we can use it as a template.
So just select these four lines of code for the example.
First aliment, copy that into your clipboard, OK?
And now let's delete all three of those elements.
OK, instead, we want to do something dynamic, so let's say less than percentage, and then to close
that percentage greater than what we want to do is begin working with our posts.
Ouray, we would want to do something once for each item in this array so we can say posts dot for each
in these parentheses, we would give it a function.
In the parentheses, let's include a parameter named post, OK, now in the body of that function on
this line, just paste in your clipboard.
Now we do need to handle the dropping in and out of dynamic mode in Ejaz.
So at the end of this line, after the opening curly bracket, let's say percentage greater than and
then on this line at the start of it, let's say less than percentage.
Cool.
Now we just need to go through this HTML template and use dynamic values where it makes sense.
So first we see an H ref value.
This should be the oral if you click on one of these list items or one of these links.
So we would want to keep a value of slash post slash, but then we would want this to be unique.
So get rid of this hard coded post ID and instead, let's say less than percentage equal sine percentage
greater than in between post dot underscore ID.
OK, next, let's update the author Avatar for each post.
So on this image element, let's get rid of its source value and instead do something dynamic and say
post dot author Dot Avatar on the next line of code.
This should be the title of the post.
So get rid of that hard coded value.
Do something dynamic and just say post dot title.
OK, and finally for the date, in order to save a bunch of typing, let's just copy and paste the dynamic
date code from another file where we already set that up.
So in your views folder, jump into single dash post dash screen SJS around line number sixteen.
If we scroll over to the right a bit, you'll see the date.
So just begin selecting right after the word on here and just select all the way until the closing percentage
greater than simple.
So copy that into your clipboard and then back in profile dot SJS.
Just get rid of this hardcoded date value and paste in your clipboard.
OK, let's go ahead and save this and test it out to back in the browser.
If I refresh this profile screen for the Brad user.
Awesome.
We just see one post my second post created on June 9th.
And if I click on this, it takes me to the individual.
You URL for that one post.
Cool.
Let's go back to the user profile screen and let's create another post just to make sure that this template
works with multiple posts.
So up in the header I will click create post, give it a title of yet another post and the content can
be.
I am very skilled at creating posts, but submit that.
We can fix this awkward intermediate screen a bit later on, but in your address bar, just go back
to your profile.
You are our profile.
Slash your username.
If you use your browser back button, you might need to refresh.
But awesome.
We see multiple posts at this point.
We've made significant progress on the post feature.
If we think back to the CRUD acronym, so far we've taken care of the first two letters create and read.
Up next in the acronym would be the U.
Which stands for Update.
And that's exactly what we're going to cover in the next lesson.
So if you click on one of these to view that individual post, you'll notice that there's this blue
edit button here.
If you're the author of a post, you should be able to edit or update it.
This should be a fun feature to work on.
So let's keep things rolling and I'll see you in the next lesson.